---
layout: post
title: Why should kids learn to program
---

Technology is a fast moving beast. Every day something new comes up and revolutionizes the ways in which we interact with technology. At the very heart of technology lies programming. Programming is the action of giving a set of instructions to a computer to achieve a certain goal. Programming languages are used to give out these instructions, a compiler translates these instructions into sequences of 1's and 0's so a computer can understand them.

Programming is everywhere, from the software that controls our Smart TV's to the software that controls satellites orbiting the Earth. Anyone that knows how to program has a huge advantage over everyone that does not know how to program. A programmer does not have to wait for something to be done. If he understands a problem and has the initiative, he can develop a solution to a problem he encountered, and make said solution available so other people can use it.

Other advantages of learning to program consist in the development of logical and mathematical thinking. At its core, a programming language, as I mentioned above, is a set of instructions given to a computer for execution. This set of instructions have to be submitted in an orderly and logical fashion. To correctly program, a programmer has to develop certain skils, these include mathematical and logical thinking. It has been proven that development of these skills at an early age can be greatly beneficial for kids.

Different countries have taken multiple steps to teach programming. Some have either developed tools that simplify and teach the basic concepts of programming or adopted existing products like Ruby for Kids, Scratch, Alice, Microsoft Small Basic, or Microsoft Kodu.

Here in Mexico, constant economical problems, in addition to schools not having internet connection, have provoked setbacks in their technological goals.Nonetheless, the mexican government has taken its first steps by creating a pilot program called MiCompu.MX, which provides children in basic education with a laptop or a tablet. This program has been applied in a small selection of states. Their mission is to introduce kids to the internet and into an interconnected world. Depending on how this program performs, more states will apply for it. Supplying every kid with one of these devices is a great opportunity to include applications that can introduce kids to the world of programming. Will the program be succesful? Only time will tell, yet in its first baby steps, the program has proved that having a computer to research on can be greatly beneficial for basic education level students.